---
first_name: E. Virginia
last_name: Armbrust
profile:
  align: right
  image: Ginger_Armbrust.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
---

## Principal Investigator
armbrust at uw.edu

Phytoplankton are the main focus of research in our lab. These organisms are responsible for about 50% of the total amount of photosynthesis that occurs on our planet. They play a critical role in the global carbon cycle and ultimately in global climate. Because much of the organic carbon generated by phytoplankton is used by bacteria and archaea, we study phytoplankton interactions with other microbes.

## Education
* Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Biological Oceanography, 1990. Thesis advisor: Sallie W. Chisholm. Thesis title: The Life Cycle of the Centric Diatom Thalassiosira weissflogii: Control of Gametogenesis and Cell Size.
* B.A., Stanford University, Human Biology, 1980.

## Positions Held
* Richard H. Fleming Endowed Professor, University of Washington, 2022-present.
* Professor School of Oceanography, University of Washington, 2006-present.
* Director, School of Oceanography, University of Washington, 2011-2018.
* Lowell A. and Frankie L. Wakefield Endowed Professor, University of Washington, 2008-2018.
* Associate Professor, School of Oceanography, University of Washington, 2002- 2006.
* Assistant Professor, School of Oceanography, University of Washington, 1996-2002.
* NSF Marine Biotechnology and Ocean Sciences Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biology, Washington University, 1990-1995.
* Graduate Research Assistant, Biological Oceanography, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1983-1990
* Research Technician, Moss Landing Marine Laboratories, 1981-1983
* Research Technician, California Department of Fish and Game, 1980-1981

## Honors
* Elected Fellow, Amercan Geophysical Union, 2022.
* Richard H. Fleming Endowed Professor, 2022- present.
* Luigi Provasoli award for best publication of 2016 in Journal of Phycology, 2017.
* AGU Carson Lecture, 2016
* Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation Marine Microbiology Investigator 2012-2018
* Elected Member, Washington State Academy of Science, 2012
* Elected Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), 2012
* Elected Fellow, American Academy of Microbiology, 2011
* Distinguished Graduate Teaching Award, College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences, 2009
* Botanical Society of America Darbaker Prize for meritorious work on algae, 2008
* Lowell A. and Frankie L. Wakefield Professor, 2008-2018
* Luigi Provasoli award for best publication of 2005 in Journal of Phycology, 2006
* Distinguished Research Award, College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences, 2005
* Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation Marine Microbiology Investigator 2004-2012
* Distinguished Graduate Teaching Award, College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences, 2001
* Distinguished Graduate Teaching Award, College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences, 1999

## Oceanographic Research Cruises
Recent, Chief Scientist 
* Gradients cruise 5, Equatorial Pacific Ocean, R/V Thompson, January 22 - February 18, 2023.
* Gradients cruise 4, Equatorial Pacific Ocean, R/V Thompson, November 10-December 17, 2021.
* Gradients cruise 3, North Pacific Ocean, R/V Kilo Moana, April, 2019
* Gradients cruise 2, North Pacific Ocean, R/V Langseth, May/June, 2017.
* Gradients cruise 1, North Pacific Ocean, R/V KOK, April/May, 2016.
* Dimensions of Biodiversity cruise, North Pacific Ocean, R/V Kilo Moana, August/September, 2013.
* Molecular biogeochemical cruise, Washington Coast, R/V Thompson, May, 2012.

Participation in 14 additional cruises; 
Lab participation in 23 additional cruises

## Publications

<div class="publications">
{%- assign years = (site.min_pub_year..site.max_pub_year) | reverse %}
{%- for y in years %}
  {%- capture bib_count %}
    {%- bibliography_count -f Armbrust_CV -q @*[year={{y}}]* %}
  {%- endcapture %}
  {%- assign bib_count = bib_count | to_integer %}
  {%- if bib_count > 0 %}
    <h3 class="year">{{y}}</h3>
    {% bibliography -f Armbrust_CV -q @*[year={{y}}]* %}
  {%- endif %}
{% endfor %}
</div>
